Okay so let's see if we can answer the questions in the scenario we've been told or that P.S. One pings
P.S. two and we need to answer these questions based on the Echo request message sent from P.S. One
to P.S. 2.
So we firstly asked What is the destination MAC address in the frame at point A in the network when
traffic is sent from one layer to network across a a piece is going to OP for the runners MAC address
and encapsulate the frame with the writers MAC address when sending traffic to a remote destination.
So the MAC address that will be used is the MAC address of the routers gigabit 0 0 0 interface which
is configured as this.
So the answer to the question is e rather ones gigabit.
0 0 MAC address so I would say 4 Question 1 The answer easy but let's verify that by using simulation
mode in Packet Tracer I'm going to edit my filters to only show up and ICMP traffic.
You can click this option show all and then uncheck the various traffic types that you want to view
on P.S. 1.
I'm going to send a ping to the IP address of P.S. to and in the output here I'll be able to view the
ICMP traffic so the inbound PD shows us that the destination MAC address is the routers MAC address
which is configured as follows.
So again answer to Question 1 is the road is gigabit.
0 0 0 address is the MAC address used as the destination MAC address in the frame.
And that address is this so that would be the answer for question 2 which is asking us for the destination
MAC address.
Question 3 asks us what is the encapsulation used.
Notice the encapsulation is Ethernet to So if 2 is the encapsulation used at point A in the network
we can see that again in the packet tracer capture.
We then asked to do something similar at point B in the network so I'll click capture forward we could
actually look at that under the frame on the switch and look at the outbound PD you notice the destination
MAC address is the same ether type is Ethan it too.
This is the mac address of the router so the answers here would be very similar.
We're not asked in this example for the encapsulation used but the encapsulation used is ether to so
we could look at is that.
Yeah or we could look at the inbound PDA view on the rudder and you'll notice it has the same information
so that's the answers to questions.
One two five we then need to answer the question What is the destination MAC address at point C in the
network.
In other words over here so looking at the outbound PD you what you'll notice is there is no mac address.
The encapsulation used on the surreal interface is HDL C HDL C doesn't use MAC addresses MAC addresses
are used in Ethernet so we could see that here or as the inbound PD you on a rather to inbound PD shows
something very similar.
Notice the encapsulation used his HDL C there is no mac address so the answer to Question 6 is there
is no mac address at point to see in the network and the encapsulation used is HDL C.
We then asked similar information at pointed D in the network.
So what is the destination MAC address.
What is the actual MAC address and what is the encapsulation used at point D.
So D over here so we could look at the road as outbound PDA you
MAC address is this that is the MAC address of the P.C. So IP config shows us the IP address of the
P.C. IP config slash all shows us the destination MAC address of the P.C..
So this is the actual MAC address used
going back to our questions.
We need to specify whose MAC address is in the destination frame at point D that is PCI 2s MAC address.
This is the actual MAC address and we back on Ethan at which means it's going to be Ethan it too as
the encapsulation we can verify that by looking at the outbound PD you on the router notice its Ethernet
to.
So this is gonna be Ethernet to once again we could also if we wanted to look at the ingress traffic
on the switch ingress shows something very similar destination MAC address Frank type is Ethan to
that's actually going to be the same under this link so on e we could either look at the packet outbound
on the switch notice it's the same or we could look at the ingress PD you onto the P.C. exactly the
same information is shown for these questions so if we look at point E the answer to the question will
be the same its P.C. 2s mac address MAC address is that and the frame type is Ethernet to So were you
able to answer those questions and can you answer the questions for the return traffic.
In other words the echo reply so if I click capture forward now notice we getting an echo reply message.
So if we look at the inbound PD you and we scroll down the type here is this.
But if I go back
the inbound PD you honor the P.C. had a type of 8 so echo request and then the echo reply message over
here
has an ICMP type of this.
And notice you can see that the source MAC address is P.C. to button the destination MAC address is
rather to so on it to
show run notice.
This is the MAC address configured on gigabit 0 0 0 and that's the MAC address that we see as the destination.
At this point for the Echo reply source MAC addresses this.
Let's work through the process when it gets to the router the router will see that information on the
inbound PD you destination MAC address is itself.
Source is the P.C. but on outbound there on no mac addresses a different encapsulation is used.
Cancellation is HDL C but notice the IP address information stays the same.
If we go across the link look at Route 1 inbound PD U is h still C outbound PD U is Ethernet to destination
MAC address is P.S. 1 to look at the config of P.S. 1 notice that is the MAC address of P.S. 1 source
MAC address is the router with this MAC address capture forward it'll be the same on the switch inbound
and outbound PD use will show that to the destination MAC addresses.
P.S. 1 source MAC address is the router.
Same for outbound.
So in and out we'll have that and if we capture forward again we'll see something similar under the
P.C. for the inbound PD u destination is the P.C. source is the router so Packet Tracer allows you to
see the life of a packet quite nicely.
At every stage in the network it's important that you understand encapsulation as source and destination
MAC addresses and how are they used for the CCMA exam Opie enjoyed to this video.
If you did please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I want to wish you all the very best.